# Obstacle-Avoiding-Line-Follower-Robot

Robots are becoming important in various fields. This project is very useful to industries and modern technologies. Now a days technology, the industries are adopting automated robots in workplace instead of human. The purpose of this project is to design autonomously driven car which can perform path tracing and obstacle avoiding controlled by microcontroller. IR sensors track the path and ping ultrasonic sensor sense the obstacles on the line path. If there’s any obstacle, the car will automatically move its position to left to right. The basic line follower robot follows the path either black or white color in inverted surface but having and obstacles in its path becomes a reasonable issue effect its utilization in workplace. The main thing is obstacle avoidance. This robot follows line detect obstacles and take necessary actions to avoid it. The Arduino uno board is control the system of this robot. Arduino uno board has six analog input pins A0 through A5. These pins can read the signal from analog sensors. Each Arduino board has its own microcontroller. The design includes two modules –line following and obstacles detection, both modules and its algorithm are implemented individually and at final both are combined in a such a way that the robot performs in specified task. The three sets of IR transmitter receiver and ultra-sonic sensors are implemented to detect its path and obstacles. Sensors and motor shields are connected to control system and power is taken from 11V battery.
